Referee Report
--------------
Reviewer's Comments:

In this paper the authors try to model and evaluate the contribution of
cluster radio halos to the EoR foreground in view of the future SKA1-LOW
EoR experiment. They conclude that radio halos are severe foreground
sources and need serious treatments.

Despite I believe this work was somehow necessary, there are several
perhaps unavoidable simplifications in their treatment of diffuse radio
emission in galaxy clusters that needed to be critically discussed and
clarified in the paper, also before to judge the final part of the paper
that is more specifically on simulations of SKA1-LOW observations.

Here below some points that needed to be addressed.

1) The authors assume radio halos are generated during cluster-cluster
mergers due to the synchrotron emission of relativistic electrons
re-accelerated by the turbulence developing in the ICM during mergers,
the so-called turbulent re-acceleration model. They need to acknowledge
pioneering works in the field: e.g. Brunetti et al. (2001); Petrosian
2001.

2) They then model the formation of halos in galaxy clusters using
basic prescriptions from the Cassano & Brunetti (2005) paper, with
some differences. Basically they follow the formation history of galaxy
clusters through mergers by using the semi-analystic model of Lacy & Cole,
which is based on the Press-Schechter theory of structure formation. They
calculate the turbulent acceleration efficiency and duration for each
merger event and then derived the temporal evolution of the relativistic
electron spectrum and the ensuing synchrotron radiation.

Before showing Fig.1, which is really the final product of all their
computations, they need to show some intermediate results that can help
the reader to understand what's going on.

For instance, it would be very useful to see: a) a plot showing the
simulated merging histories of a sample of galaxy clusters; b) a plot
showing the temporal evolution of the electron and synchrotron spectra.

It is also not clear, how many galaxy clusters are you simulating?

3) They made the assumption that turbulence during mergers is generated
on a scale L_turb~1/3 Rvir, that is independently on the mass-ratio
of the two merging sub-clusters, and that depend basically only on
the mass of the main cluster. This is not well motivated, indeed it
is likely that such a scale would depend also on the mass (and radius)
of the infalling clusters, whose external regions could be stripped by
the ram-pressure experienced during the infall. Since a cluster with a
given mass can experienced mergers with clusters with different mass,
it is likely that turbulence can be generated on scale and volume which
can be really different from the fixed 1/3 Rvir. If the authors, on the
other hand, believe their assumption is physically motivated, then they
need to clarify it.

$) Related to point 3), the assumption that the size of radio halos is
about the size of the turbulent region, that the authors assumed to be
~1/3 Rvir is not well motivated. In particular, I found this assumption
not in agreement with the observed scaling between the radio halo size
and the cluster viral radius, that is steeper -- RH~R_v^~2.6 -- and with
a lower normalization (see Cassano et al. 2007; Fig.11). The authors
need to explain and clarify this assumption.

4) In addition to the radio halos flux distribution (their Fig.1) they
need to show some intermediate statistical products and connection with
the properties of the hosting clusters: a) which is the fraction of
clusters with radio halos as a function of the cluster mass?  b) are
they able to reproduce the observed radio power at 1.4 GHz vs cluster
mass correlation (slope, normalisation and scatter)?

These tests are necessary to provide your modeling is able to reproduce
the present observed statistical connection between radio halo and
cluster properties and thus to provide reasonable constraints that can
be used by future the EoR experiments.

5) In the framework of the turbulent re-acceleration scenario, there
are a couple of important expectations for their statistical properties
that have been put forward in a number of papers (e.g. Cassano, Brunetti,
Setti 2006; Cassano et al. 2016): the efficiency to produce radio halos
is expected to decrease in lower massive systems, and since there is a
scaling between the radio halo power and the cluster mass, this implies
that the number counts of radio halos should flatten at lower radio
fluxes. This seems not to be the case in your Fig.1. Please explain.

Also the probability to form radio halos should increases at low radio
frequency, where also less efficient merger can be able to produce
diffuse radio emission. This implies that the number counts of radio
halos should increase from high to low frequency because of the presence
of a population of radio halos with ultra-steep radio spectra which is
expected to be visible only at low radio frequency. Is the expected
number of radio halos larger at low radio frequency because of this
effect, or essentially all the halos visible at high-frequency (1400 MHz)
are also visible at low frequency (~150 MHz) with a shift of the flux
density for the spectral index?


Minor Comments:

6) In Sect.1 "Introduction", the authors refer to their work as
to a "sophisticated model" and "sophisticated simulation" of radio
halos. Unfortunately, sophisticated (or if you prefer "realistic")
simulation of diffuse radio emission from galaxy clusters are currently
out of reach, since you need at the same time cosmological numerical
simulations to follow realistic merging history of galaxy clusters and
a superb spatial resolution to follow the generation and evolution of
the MHD turbulence, magnetic field and acceleration of relativistic
particles. Rather I would refer to the proposed modelling as to a
"semi-analytic approach".

7) Sect.2.1.3 - i) "Although all of them have reasonable constraints
from either observation or simulation studies, it is essential
to further tune them in order to achieve better agreement with the
observations." Unfortunately, it is difficult to say there are reasonable
constraints from either observations or simulations, so please downgrade
this sentence.

